Add threat intel source apis for create delete get search operations (#7847)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _security-analytics/api-tools/threat-intel/threat-intel-source.md

---
layout: default

> title: Threat Intelligence Source Configuration APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Threat intelligence source APIs
```
Can we shorten this to Threat intelligence source APIs or Thread intelligence APIs? See the other headings in this section.

parent: API tools
nav_order: 50
---

> # Threat Intelligence Source Configuration APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Threat intelligence source APIs
```
(or same as above title)

> The following APIs can be used for tasks related to threat intelligence source configurations.

Reviewer 2: @eirsep  Would it be helpful to define what a `source` is for our purposes?

Author: Started off with the APIs
Once that's done, similar to detectors, I will define entities and detail them out in another commit to this PR

Author: added a page for Threat intel overview plz check

> The following APIs can be used for tasks related to threat intelligence source configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use threat intelligence source API to configure tasks related to threat intelligence sources.
```

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ## Create Threat intel source API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create threat intelligence source API
```
(Our headings are sentence case.)

> Creates a new threat intel source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following command creates a new threat intelligence source.
```

```
POST _plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/sources
```

### Request fields

> You can specify the following fields when creating a threat intel source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following fields are used to create a threat intelligence source.
```

 | `format`                              | String           | The format of the threat intelligence data. Example: `STIX2`.                                                                                                      |
 | `description`                         | String           | A description of the threat intelligence source.                                                                                                                   |
 | `enabled`                             | Boolean          | Indicates whether scheduled refresh of iocs from source is enabled i.e. the threat intel iocs downloaded from the source should be refreshed on a schedule or not. |
 | `ioc_types`                           | Array of Strings | The STIX2 types of IOCs that the source supports. Supported ioc types: `["hashes", "domain-name","ipv4-addr", "ipv6-addr"]`.                                       |
 | `source`                              | Object           | Contains the source details for the threat intelligence data.                                                                                                      |

>  | `source.ioc_upload`                   | Object           | Details for IOC upload. Applicable for `IOC_UPLOAD` type                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | `source.ioc_upload`                   | Object           | Details for IOC upload. Applicable for the `IOC_UPLOAD` type.                                                                                                           |
```

>  | `source.ioc_upload.file_name`         | String           | The name of the file containing IOCs. Example: `test`.Applicable for `IOC_UPLOAD` type                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 | `source.ioc_upload.file_name`         | String           | The name of the file containing IOCs. Example: `test`. Applicable for the`IOC_UPLOAD` type.                                                                             |
```

 | `modified`     | Integer/String   | The timestamp when the IOC was last modified, either in UNIX epoch format or ISO 8601 format. Example: `1719519073` or `2024-06-20T02:06:20.56201Z`. |
 | `description`  | String           | A description of the IOC. Example: `first one here`.                                                                                                 |
 | `labels`       | Array of Strings | Labels or tags associated with the IOC. Example: `["ik"]`.                                                                                           |
 | `feed_id`      | String           | A unique identifier for the feed to which the IOC belongs. Example: `jl`.                                                                            |
 | `spec_version` | String           | The specification version used for the IOC. Example: `gavvnespe`.                                                                                    |
 | `version`      | Integer          | A version number for the IOC. Example: `-4356924786557562654`.                                                                                       |

### Response Fields

> | Field                                       | Type              | Description                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Field                                       | Data type              | Description                                                                                                     |
```

```json
{
  "_id": "2c0u7JAB9IJUg27gcjUp",
  "_version": 2,
  "source_config": {
    "name": "my_custom_feed",
    "format": "STIX2",
    "type": "IOC_UPLOAD",
    "ioc_types": [
      "hashes"
    ],
    "description": "this is the description",
    "created_by_user": null,
    "created_at": "2024-07-25T23:16:25.257697Z",
    "source": {
      "ioc_upload": {
        "file_name": "test",
        "iocs": []
      }
    },
    "enabled": false,
    "enabled_time": null,
    "last_update_time": "2024-07-25T23:16:26.011774Z",
    "schedule": null,
    "state": "AVAILABLE",
    "refresh_type": "FULL",
    "last_refreshed_user": null,
    "last_refreshed_time": "2024-07-25T23:16:25.522735Z"
  }
}
```

### Example request for S3_CUSTOM type source

POST _plugins/_security_analytics/threat_intel/sources/
```json
{
 "type": "S3_CUSTOM",
 "name": "example-ipv4-from-SAP-account",
 "format": "STIX2",
 "store_type": "OS",
 "enabled": "true",
 "schedule": {
  "interval": {
   "start_time": 1717097122,
   "period": "10",
   "unit": "DAYS"
  }
 },
 "source": {
  "s3": {
   "bucket_name": "threat-intel-s3-test-bucket",
   "object_key": "alltypess3object",
   "region": "us-west-2",

>    "role_arn": "arn:aws:iam::248279774929:role/threat_intel_s3_test_role"

Reviewer 2: Should we instead use a placeholder here like `<ROLE_ARN>`?

Author: Good point. It's a dummy aws account but  will let @Naarcha-AWS and @hdhalter recommned the right practice.
